'\" t
.\"     cook - a file construction tool
.\"     Copyright (C) 1992-1995, 1997-1999, 2007 Peter Miller;
.\"     All rights reserved.
.\"
.\"     This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify
.\"     it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by
.\"     the Free Software Foundation; either version 3 of the License, or
.\"     (at your option) any later version.
.\"
.\"     This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
.\"     but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
.\"     MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
.\"     GNU General Public License for more details.
.\"
.\"     You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License
.\"     along with this program. If not, see
.\"     <http://www.gnu.org/licenses/>.
.\"
.if n .ftr CB B
.if n .ftr CI I
.if n .ftr CW R
.if n .ftr C  R
.TH "Read Me" Cook Cook "Reference Manual"
.so ../etc/version.so
.hy 0
.ad l
.SH NAME
cook \- a file construction tool
.XX "" "The README File"
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.I cook
program is a tool for constructing files,
and maintaining referential integrity between files.
It is given a set of files to create,
and recipes of how to create and maintain them.
In any non-trivial program there will be
prerequisites to performing the actions necessary to
creating any file,
such as include files.
The
.I cook
program provides a mechanism to define these.
.PP
When a program is being developed or maintained,
the programmer will typically change one file of several which
comprise the program.
The
.I cook
program examines the last-modified times of the files
to see when the prerequisites of a file have changed,
implying that the file needs to be recreated as it is logically out of date.
.PP
The
.I cook
program also provides a facility for implicit recipes,
allowing users to specify how to form a file with a
given suffix from a file with a different suffix.
For example,
to create
.IR filename .o
from
.IR filename .c
.PP
.br
.TS
tab(;);
lw(2.75i) lw(2.75i).
T{
.sp 0.5
.if n *
.if t \(bu
Cook is a replacement for the traditional \fImake\fP(1) tool.
T};T{
.sp 0.5
.if n *
.if t \(bu
There is a \fImake2cook\fP utility included in the distribution
to help convert makefiles into cookbooks.
T}
T{
.sp 0.5
.if n *
.if t \(bu
Cook is more powerful than the traditional \fImake\fP tool.
T};\^
T{
.sp 0.5
.if n *
.if t \(bu
Cook has true variables, not simple macros.
T};T{
.sp 0.5
.if n *
.if t \(bu
Cook has a simple but powerful string-based description language with
many built-in functions.  This allows sophisticated filename
specification and manipulation without loss of readability or
performance.
T}
T{
.sp 0.5
.if n *
.if t \(bu
Cook has user defined functions.
T};\^
T{
.sp 0.5
.if n *
.if t \(bu
Cook can build in parallel.
T};T{
.sp 0.5
.if n *
.if t \(bu
Cook is able to build your project with multiple parallel threads, with
support for rules which must be single threaded.  It is possible to
distribute parallel builds over your LAN, allowing you to turn your
network into a virtual parallel build engine.
T}
T{
.sp 0.5
.if n *
.if t \(bu
Cook can distribute builds across your LAN.
T};\^
T{
.sp 0.5
.if n *
.if t \(bu
Cook is able to use fingerprints to supplement file modification
times.  This allows build optimization without contorted rules.
T};T{
.sp 0.5
.if n *
.if t \(bu
Cook can be configured with an explicit list of primary source files.
This allow the dependency graph to be constructed faster by not going
down dead ends, and also allows better error messages when the graph
can't be constructed.  This requires an accurate source file manifest.
T}
T{
.sp 0.5
.if n *
.if t \(bu
In addition to walking the dependency graph,
Cook can turn the input rules into a shell script, or a web page.
T};\^
T{
.sp 0.5
.if n *
.if t \(bu
Cook runs on almost any flavor of UNIX.  The source distribution is self
configuring using a GNU Autoconf generated configure script.
T};T{
.sp 0.5
.if n *
.if t \(bu
Cook has special \fIcascade\fP dependencies, allowing powerful include
dependency specification, amongst other things.
T}
.TE
.PP
If you are putting together a source-code distribution and planning to
write a makefile, consider writing a cookbook instead.  Although
Cook takes a day or two to learn, it is much more powerful and a bit
more intuitive than the traditional \fImake\fP(1) tool.
And Cook doesn't interpret tab differently to 8 space characters!
.br
.ne 2i
.SH ARCHIVE SITE
The latest version of
.I cook
is available on the Web from:
.RS 4m
.TS
tab(;);
l l s
l l l.
URL:;http://www.canb.auug.org.au/~millerp/cook/
File:;cook-\*(v).README;# the README from the tar file
File:;cook-\*(v).lsm;# LSM format description
File:;cook-\*(v).spec;# RedHat package specification
.\" File:;cook-\*(v).patch.gz;# patch to take \*(w) to \*(v)
File:;cook-\*(v).rm.ps.gz;# PostScript of the Reference Manual
File:;cook-\*(v).ug.ps.gz;# PostScript of the User Guide
File:;cook-\*(v).tar.gz;# the complete source
.TE
.RE
.PP
This Web page also contains a few other pieces of software written by me.
Please have a look if you are interested.
.PP
Cook is also carried by \f(CWsunsite.unc.edu\fP in its Linux archives.
You will be able to find Cook on any of its mirrors.
.RS 4m
.TS
tab(;);
l l s
l l l.
URL:;ftp://sunsite.unc.edu/pub/Linux/devel/make/
File:;cook-\*(v).README;# the README from the tar file
File:;cook-\*(v).lsm;# LSM format description
File:;cook-\*(v).spec;# RedHat package specification
.\" File:;cook-\*(v).patch.gz;# patch to take \*(w) to \*(v)
File:;cook-\*(v).rm.ps.gz;# PostScript of the Reference Manual
File:;cook-\*(v).ug.ps.gz;# PostScript of the User Guide
File:;cook-\*(v).tar.gz;# the complete source
.TE
.RE
This site is extensively mirrored around the world,
so look for a copy near you (you will get much better response).
.\" .SS FTP by EMail
.\" For those of you without Web or FTP access,
.\" I recommend the use of an ftp-by-email server.
.\" Here is a list of a few (there may be more):
.\" .TS
.\" center,tab(;);
.\" l l.
.\" ftpmail@cs.uow.edu.au;Australia
.\" ftpmail@ftp.uni-stuttgart.de;Germany
.\" ftpmail@grasp.insa-lyon.fr;France
.\" ftpmail@doc.ic.ac.uk;Great Britain
.\" ftpmail@ieunet.ie;Ireland
.\" ftpmail@sunsite.unc.edu;USA
.\" ftpmail@ftp.uu.net;USA
.\" .TE
.\" .PP
.\" In general, you can get a help message about how to use each system
.\" by sending email with a subject of "help"
.\" and a message body containing just the word "help".
.br
.ne 2i
.SH MAILING LIST
A mailing list has been created so that users of
.I cook
may exchange ideas about how to use the
.I cook
program.
Discussion may include,
but is not limited to:
bugs, enhancements, and applications.
The list is not moderated.
.PP
The address of the mailing list is
.RS
.ft CW
cook-users@canb.auug.org.au
.ft R
.RE
Please
.if t \fBdo not\fP
.if n DO NOT
send subscribe requests to this address.
.PP
To subscribe to this mailing list,
send an email message to \f(CWmajordomo@canb.auug.org.au\fP with
a message body containing the single line
.RS
.ft CW
subscribe cook-users
.ft R
.RE
If you have an email address which is not readily derived from
your mail headers (majordomo is only a Perl program, after all)
you will need to use a message of the form:
.RS
.ft CW
subscribe cook-users \fIaddress\fP
.ft R
.RE
where \fIaddress\fP is the email address to which
you want messages sent.
.PP
The software which handles this mailing list
.if n CANNOT
.if t .B cannot
send you a copy of the
.I cook
program.
.br
.ne 2i
.SH BUILDING COOK
Full instructions for building the
.I cook
program may be found in the
.I BUILDING
file included in this distribution.
.br
.ne 2i
.SH COPYRIGHT
.I cook
version \*(v)
.br
Copyright
.nr d) \n(.d
.if t \(co
.if n (C)
\*(Y) Peter Miller;
.if '\n(d)'\n(.d' .br
All rights reserved.
.PP
This program is free software;
you can redistribute it
and/or modify it under the terms of the GNU General Public
License as published by the Free Software Foundation;
either version 3 of the License,
or (at your option) any later version.
.PP
This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY;
without even the implied
warranty of MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR
PURPOSE.
See the GNU General Public License for more details.
.PP
You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License along
with this program. If not, see <http://www.gnu.org/licenses/>.
.PP
It should be in the
.I LICENSE
file included with this distribution.
.br
.ne 1i
.SH AUTHOR
.TS
tab(;);
l l l.
Peter Miller;E-Mail:;millerp@canb.auug.org.au
\f(CW/\e/\e*\fP;WWW:;http://www.canb.auug.org.au/~millerp/
.TE
.br
.bp
.SH NEW IN THIS RELEASE
.XX "" "Release Notes"
A number of features have been added to \fIcook\fP with this release.
The following list is only a summary; for excruciating detail, and also
acknowledgements of those who generously sent me feedback, please see
the \fIetc/CHANGES.*\fP files included in this distribution.
.so new.so
