'\" t
.\"     cook - file construction tool
.\"     Copyright (C) 1994, 1995, 1997-2002, 2007, 2008, 2010 Peter Miller
.\"
.\"     This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify
.\"     it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by
.\"     the Free Software Foundation; either version 3 of the License, or
.\"     (at your option) any later version.
.\"
.\"     This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
.\"     but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
.\"     MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
.\"     GNU General Public License for more details.
.\"
.\"     You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License
.\"     along with this program. If not, see
.\"     <http://www.gnu.org/licenses/>.
.\"
.TH C_INCL 1 Cook "Reference Manual"
.so lib/en/man1/z_name.so
.ds n) c_incl
.SH NAME
\*(n) - determine dependencies
.XX "c_incl(1)" "determine include dependencies"
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B \*(n)
[
.IR option ...
]
.I filename
.br
.B \*(n)
.B -Help
.br
.B \*(n)
.B -VERSion
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.I \*(n)
program
is used to traverse source files looking for include dependencies
suitable for \f(CW[collect]\fPion or \f(CW#include-cooked\fP-ing by cook.
.PP
The filename ``-'' is understood to mean the standard input.
When you use this file name, caching is ignored.
.PP
Several input languages are supported,
see the options list for details.
.br
.ne 1i
.SH OPTIONS
The following options are understood.
.TP 8n
.B -C
The source file is a C source file.
It is assumed that it will have the dependencies resolved
by the
.IR cpp (1)
command.
The same include semantics as the
.IR cpp (1)
command will be employed.
This is the default.
This is short-hand for ``--language=c''
.TP 8n
.B --Language=\fIname\fP
.RS
This option may be used to specify the language of the source file.
Know names include ``C'', ``M4'', ``optimistic'' and ``roff''.
.PP
The ``optimistic'' language will take on almost anything.  It accepts an
\f[CW]include\fP keyword in any case, including mixed, with leading
white space, but at most one leading punctuation character.  It assumes
that the filename follows the include keyword and does not contain white
space, and does not start or end with punctuation characters (it strips
off any it may find).  The rest of the line is ignored.  The drawback is
that it will sometimes recognise commands and other text as unintended
include directives, hence the name.
This is often used to recognise include directives in a wide variety of
assembler input.
.RE
.TP 8n
.B -Roff
The source file is a *roff source file.
It is assumed that it will have the dependencies resolved
by the
.IR roffpp (1)
command.
The same include semantics as the
.IR roffpp (1)
command will be employed.
This is short-hand for ``--language=roff''
.TP 8n
.B -Verbose
Tell what is happening.
.TP 8n
.BI -I path
.br
Specify include path, a la
.IR cc (1).
.TP 8n
.B -I-
.RS
Any directories you specify with
.B -I
options before the
.B -I-
option are searched only for the case of \fI#include "file"\fP;
they  are  not  searched for \fI#include <file>\fP.
.PP
If  additional  directories are specified with
.B -I
options after  the
.BR -I- ,
these directories are searched for all \fI#include\fP directives.
(Ordinarily all
.B -I
directories are used this way.)
.PP
In addition, the
.I -I-
option inhibits the  use  of
the current directory
(where the current input file came from)
as the first search directory for \fI#include "file"\fP.
There is no way to override this effect of \fI-I-\fP.
With \fI-I.\fP you can specify searching the directory which
was current when \*(n) was invoked.
That is not exactly the same
as what the preprocessor does by default,
but it is often satisfactory.
.PP
The \fI-I-\fP option does not inhibit the use of the standard
system directories for header files.
Thus, \fI-I-\fP and \fI-No_System\fP are independent.
.RE
.TP 8n
.B -Absolute_Paths
This option may be used to allow absolute paths in the output.
This is usually the default.
.TP 8n
.B -No_Absolute_Paths
This option may be used to exclude absolute paths from the output.
.TP 8n
.B -Absent_Local_Ignore
.br
For files included using a
.I "#include ''filename.h''"
directive,
ignore the file if it cannot be found.
.TP 8n
.B -Absent_Local_Mention
.br
For files included using a
.I "#include ''filename.h''"
directive,
print the file name even if the file cannot be found.
This is the default (it probably needs to be built).
.TP 8n
.B -Absent_Local_Error
.br
For files included using a
.I "#include ''filename.h''"
directive,
print a fatal error if the file cannot be found.
.TP 8n
.B -Absent_System_Ignore
.br
For files included with a
.I "#include <filename.h>"
directive,
ignore the file if it cannot be found.
This is the default (it was probably ifdef'ed out).
.TP 8n
.B -Absent_System_Mention
.br
For files included with a
.I "#include <filename.h>"
directive,
print the file name even if the file cannot be found.
.TP 8n
.B -Absent_System_Error
.br
For files included with a
.I "#include <filename.h>"
directive,
print a fatal error if the file cannot be found.
.TP 8n
.B -Absent_Program_Ignore
.br
If the file named on the command line cannot be found,
behave as if the file were found, but was empty.
.TP 8n
.B -Absent_Program_Error
.br
If the file named on the command line cannot be found,
print a fatal error message.
This is the default.
.TP 8n
.B -Escape_Newlines
This option may be used to request that newlines in the output are
escaped with backslash (``\e'') characters.
.TP 8n
.B -Help
.br
Give information on how to use
.IR \*(n) .
.TP 8n
\fB-EXclude\fP \fIfilename\fP
This option may be used to nominate include file names which are not to
be used.
.TP 8n
.B -VERSion
.br
Tell what version of
.I \*(n)
is being run.
.TP 8n
\fB-Interior_Files\fP \fIfilename\fP...
This option may be used to tell \fIc_incl\fP about include files which
don't exist yet.  This is because they are interior to the dependency graph,
but \fIcook\fP(1) hasn't finished walking it yet.
Often used with Cook's \f(CW[interior-files]\fP function.
(\fBNote:\fP the \fIfilename\fP list has an arbitrary number of files;
it ends at the next option or end-of-line,
so you need to be careful where you put the input filename.)
.TP 8n
.B -No_System
.br
Do not search the
.I /usr/include
directory.
By default this is searched last.
This option implies the -No_Absolute_Paths option,
unless explicitly contradicted.
.TP 8n
.B -CAche
.br
This option may be used to turn caching on.
This is the default.
.TP 8n
.B -No_Cache
.br
This option may be used to turn caching off.
.TP 8n
\fB-PREfix\fP \fIstring\fP
.br
This option may be used to print a string
before any of the filenames are printed.
It will not be printed if no file names are printed.
.TP 8n
.B -Quote_FileNames
This option may be used to have \fIc_incl\fP quote filenames.  This
permits filenames to contain characters which are special to Cook,
including spaces.
.TP 8n
\fB-SUFfix\fP \fIstring\fP
.br
This option may be used to print a string
after all of the filenames are printed.
It will not be printed if no file names are printed.
.TP 8n
\fB-Output\fP \fIfilename\fP
This option may be used to specify the output file.
Defaults to the standard output if not set.
.TP 8n
\fB-No_Source_Relative_Includes\fP
This option will give a fatal error if a
.I "#include ''filename.h''"
directive is used.
This is necessary when you are using Cook's \f(CWsearch_list\fP functionality
to stitch together a baseline and a private work area.
.TP 8n
\fB-RECursion\fP
This option may be used to specify that nested include files are to
be scanned, so that their includes may also be discovered.  This is
the default.
.TP 8n
\fB-No_RECursion\fP
This option may be use to specify that nested include files are
\fInot\fP to be scanned.  This option is recommended for use with the
Cook \f(CWcascade-for\fP recipes.
This option implies -\fBNo_Cache\fP, unless a \fB-Cache\fP option is specified.
.TP 8n
\fB-Remove_Leading_Path\fP \fIpath\fP
This option may be used to remove path prefixes from the included filenames.
May be used more than once.
This is necessary when you are using Cook's \f(CWsearch_list\fP functionality
to stitch together a baseline and a private work area;
usually as ``\f(CW[prepost "-rlp=" "" [search_list]]\fP''
.TP 8n
\fB-STripdot\fP
This option may be used to specify that leading redundant dot directories
are to be removed from paths before processing.
This is the default.
.TP 8n
\fB-No_STripdot\fP
This option may be used to specify that leading redundant dot directories
need not be removed from paths before processing.
(Some path flattening may still occur.)
.TP 8n
\fB-Substitute_Leading_Path\fP \fIfrom\fP \fIto\fP
This option may be used to modify path prefixes from the included filenames.
May be used more than once.
This is necessary when you are
performing heterogeneous builds in the same directory tree.
By using an ``arch'' variable to hold the architecture,
and placing each architecture's objects in a separate directory tree,
this option may be used as ``\f(CW-slp [arch] "'[arch]'"\fP''
(The outer quotes protect from Cook, the inner quotes protect from the shell.)
If you need more intricate editing, used \fIsed\fP(1).
.PP
Any other options will generate an error.
.so lib/en/man1/o__rules.so
.br
.ne 1i
.SH CACHING
The caching mechanism use by the
.I \*(n)
program caches the results of searching files
for include files (in a file called
.I .\*(n)rc
in the current directory).
The cache is only refreshed when a file changes.
.PP
The use of this cache has been shown to dramatically increase the
performance of the
.I \*(n)
program.
Typically,
only a small proportions files in a project change between builds,
resulting in a very high cache hit rate.
.PP
When using caching,
always use the same command line options,
otherwise weird and wonderful things will happen.
.PP
The
.I .\*(n)rc
file is a binary file.
If you wish to rebuild the cache,
simply delete this file with the
.IR rm (1)
command.
Being a binary file,
the
.I .\*(n)rc
file is not portable across machines or operating systems,
so you will need to delete it when you move your sources.
It is a binary file for performance.
.PP
Accesses to the
.I .\*(n)rc
file use file locking, so recipies using
.I \*(n)
need not use the \f(CWsingle-thread\fP clause.
.so lib/en/man1/z_exit.so
.so lib/en/man1/copyright.so
