'\" t
.\"	cook - file construction tool
.\"	Copyright (C) 1991, 1992, 1993, 1994, 1997, 2001 Peter Miller;
.\"	All rights reserved.
.\"
.\"	This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify
.\"	it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by
.\"	the Free Software Foundation; either version 2 of the License, or
.\"	(at your option) any later version.
.\"
.\"	This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
.\"	but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
.\"	MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
.\"	GNU General Public License for more details.
.\"
.\"	You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License
.\"	along with this program; if not, write to the Free Software
.\"	Foundation, Inc., 59 Temple Place, Suite 330, Boston, MA 02111, USA.
.\"
.\" MANIFEST: manual entry for the cooktime command
.\"
.TH COOKTIME 1 Cook "Reference Manual"
.so z_name.so
.ds n) cooktime
.SH NAME
\*(n) \- set file times
.XX "cooktime(1)" "set file times"
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B \*(n)
[
.IR option \&...
]
.IR filename \&...
.br
.B \*(n)
.B -Help
.br
.B \*(n)
.B -VERSion
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.I \*(n)
program is used to
set the modified time or access time of a file.
This can be used to defend against unwanted
logical dependencies when making "minor" changes to files.
.PP
If no option is specified,
the default action is as if "\fI\-Modify now\fP" was specified.
.br
.ne 1i
.SH OPTIONS
The following options are understood.
.TP 8n
\fB-Access\fP \fIdate\fP
.br
This option may be used to
set the last-access time of the files.
The date is relatively free-format;
rember to use quotes to insulate spaces from the shell.
.TP 8n
\fB-Modify\fP \fIdate\fP
.br
This option may be used to
set the last-modify time of the files.
The date is relatively free-format;
rember to use quotes to insulate spaces from the shell.
.TP 8n
.B -Report
.br
When use alone,
produces a listing of access times and modify times for the named files.
When used with -Access or -Modify,
produces a listing of the changes made.
.TP 8n
.B -Help
.br
Give some information on how to use the
.I \*(n)
command.
.PP
Any other option will generate a diagnostic error.
.so o__rules.so
.so z_exit.so
.so copyright.so
