'\" t
.\"     cook - file construction tool
.\"     Copyright (C) 1991-1994, 1997, 2001, 2007 Peter Miller;
.\"     All rights reserved.
.\"
.\"     This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify
.\"     it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by
.\"     the Free Software Foundation; either version 3 of the License, or
.\"     (at your option) any later version.
.\"
.\"     This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
.\"     but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
.\"     MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
.\"     GNU General Public License for more details.
.\"
.\"     You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License
.\"     along with this program. If not, see
.\"     <http://www.gnu.org/licenses/>.
.\"
.TH FIND_LIBS 1 Cook "Reference Manual"
.so z_name.so
.ds n) find_libs
.SH NAME
\*(n) \- find pathnames of libraries
.XX "find_libs(1)" "find pathnames of libraries"
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B \*(n)
[
.BI -L path
\&...
][
.BI -l name
\&...
]
.br
.B \*(n)
.B -Help
.br
.B \*(n)
.B -VERSion
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.I \*(n)
program is used to find the actual pathname of a library
specified on a
.IR cc (1)
command line.
This allows
.IR cook (1)
to know these dependencies.
.br
.ne 1i
.SH OPTIONS
The following options are understood.
.TP 8n
.BI -L path
.br
Specify a path to search for libraries on.
If more than one is specified,
they will be scanned in the order given before the standard
.I /usr/lib
and
.I /lib
places.
This is like the same argument to
.IR cc (1),
and the usual \*(n) option abbreviation rules do not apply.
.TP 8n
.BI -l name
.br
Name a library to be searched for.
This is like the same argument to
.IR cc (1),
and the usual \*(n) option abbreviation rules do not apply.
.TP 8n
.B -Help
.br
Give some information on how to use the
.I \*(n)
command.
.TP 8n
.B -VERSion
.br
Tell the version of the
.I \*(n)
command currently executing.
.PP
All other options will result in a diagnostic error.
.so o__rules.so
.so z_exit.so
.so copyright.so
