'\" t
.\"     cook - file construction tool
.\"     Copyright (C) 1991-1994, 1997, 2001, 2007, 2008, 2010 Peter Miller
.\"
.\"     This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify
.\"     it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by
.\"     the Free Software Foundation; either version 3 of the License, or
.\"     (at your option) any later version.
.\"
.\"     This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
.\"     but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
.\"     MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
.\"     GNU General Public License for more details.
.\"
.\"     You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License
.\"     along with this program. If not, see
.\"     <http://www.gnu.org/licenses/>.
.\"
.TH ROFFPP 1 Cook "Reference Manual"
.so lib/en/man1/z_name.so
.ds n) roffpp
.SH NAME
\*(n) \- replace \&.so requests within *roff sources
.XX "roffpp(1)" "replace .so requests within *roff sources"
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B \*(n)
[
.IR option ...
][
.I infile
[
.I outfile
]]
.br
.B \*(n)
.B -Help
.br
.B \*(n)
.B -VERSion
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.I \*(n)
command may be used to
copies the input file to the output file,
including files named using
.I \&.so
directives along the way,
and removing the
.I \&.so
directives.
.PP
This is useful when processing large multi-file documents
with filters such as
.IR tbl (1)
or
.IR eqn (1)
which do not understand the
.I .so
directive.
The
.I \&.nx
directive is not understood.
The
.I \*(n)
program is not a general *roff interpreter,
so many constructs will be beyond it,
fortunately, most of them have nothing to do with include files.
Include files which cannot be found,
probably from uninterpreted *roff constructs,
if the files really does exist,
will simply be passed through unchanged,
for *roff to interpret at a later time.
.PP
The
.I \*(n)
program also allows the user to specify an include search path.
This allows, for example, common files to be kept in a central location.
.PP
Only directives of the form
.RS
.B \&.so
.I filename
.RE
are processed.
If the directive is introduced using the single quote form,
or the dot is not the first character of the line,
the directive will be ignored.
.PP
Any extra arguments on the line are ignored,
and quoting is not understood.
All characters are interpreted literally.
.PP
Examples of directives which will be ignored include
.RS
.nf
\&'so /usr/lib/tmac/tmac.an
\&.if n .so yuck
.fi
.RE
This list is not exhaustive.
.PP
The special file name
.RB ` \- '
on the command line
means the standard input or standard output,
as appropriate.
Files which are omitted are also assumed to be
the standard input or standard output,
as appropriate.
.PP
The output attempts to keep file names and line numbers in sync
by using the
.B \&.lf
directive.
The
.B \&.lf
directive is also understood as input.
This is compatible with
.IR groff (1)
and the other GNU text utilities included in the groff package.
.br
.ne 1i
.SH OPTIONS
The following options are understood.
.TP 8n
.BI -I path
.br
Specify include path, a la
.IR cc (1).
Include paths are searched in the order specified.
The include search path defaults to the current directory
if and only if the user does not specify any include search paths.
.TP 8n
.B -Help
.br
Give information on how to use
.IR \*(n) .
.TP 8n
.B -VERSion
.br
Tell what version of
.I \*(n)
is being run.
.PP
Any other option will generate a diagnostic error.
.so lib/en/man1/o__rules.so
.so lib/en/man1/z_exit.so
.so lib/en/man1/copyright.so
